The App Directory
The majority of your application is housed in the app directory. By default, this directory is namespaced under App and is autoloaded by Composer using the PSR-4 autoloading standard.

The app directory contains a variety of additional directories such as Console, Http, and Providers. Think of the Console and Http directories as providing an API into the core of your application. The HTTP protocol and CLI are both mechanisms to interact with your application, but do not actually contain application logic. In other words, they are two ways of issuing commands to your application. The Console directory contains all of your Artisan commands, while the Http directory contains your controllers, middleware, and requests.

A variety of other directories will be generated inside the app directory as you use the make Artisan commands to generate classes. So, for example, the app/Jobs directory will not exist until you execute the make:job Artisan command to generate a job class.


Many of the classes in the app directory can be generated by Artisan via commands. To review the available commands, run the php artisan list make command in your terminal.

The Broadcasting Directory
The Broadcasting directory contains all of the broadcast channel classes for your application. These classes are generated using the make:channel command. This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you when you create your first channel. To learn more about channels, check out the documentation on event broadcasting.

The Console Directory
The Console directory contains all of the custom Artisan commands for your application. These commands may be generated using the make:command command. This directory also houses your console kernel, which is where your custom Artisan commands are registered and your scheduled tasks are defined.

The Events Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you by the event:generate and make:event Artisan commands. The Events directory houses event classes. Events may be used to alert other parts of your application that a given action has occurred, providing a great deal of flexibility and decoupling.

The Exceptions Directory
The Exceptions directory contains your application's exception handler and is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application. If you would like to customize how your exceptions are logged or rendered, you should modify the Handler class in this directory.

The Http Directory
The Http directory contains your controllers, middleware, and form requests. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in this directory.

The Jobs Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the make:job Artisan command. The Jobs directory houses the queueable jobs for your application. Jobs may be queued by your application or run synchronously within the current request lifecycle. Jobs that run synchronously during the current request are sometimes referred to as "commands" since they are an implementation of the command pattern.

The Listeners Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the event:generate or make:listener Artisan commands. The Listeners directory contains the classes that handle your events. Event listeners receive an event instance and perform logic in response to the event being fired. For example, a UserRegistered event might be handled by a SendWelcomeEmail listener.

The Mail Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the make:mail Artisan command. The Mail directory contains all of your classes that represent emails sent by your application. Mail objects allow you to encapsulate all of the logic of building an email in a single, simple class that may be sent using the Mail::send method.

The Models Directory
The Models directory contains all of your Eloquent model classes. The Eloquent ORM included with Laravel provides a beautiful, simple ActiveRecord implementation for working with your database. Each database table has a corresponding "Model" which is used to interact with that table. Models allow you to query for data in your tables, as well as insert new records into the table.

The Notifications Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the make:notification Artisan command. The Notifications directory contains all of the "transactional" notifications that are sent by your application, such as simple notifications about events that happen within your application. Laravel's notification feature abstracts sending notifications over a variety of drivers such as email, Slack, SMS, or stored in a database.

The Policies Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the make:policy Artisan command. The Policies directory contains the authorization policy classes for your application. Policies are used to determine if a user can perform a given action against a resource.

The Providers Directory
The Providers directory contains all of the service providers for your application. Service providers bootstrap your application by binding services in the service container, registering events, or performing any other tasks to prepare your application for incoming requests.

In a fresh Laravel application, this directory will already contain several providers. You are free to add your own providers to this directory as needed.

The Rules Directory
This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the make:rule Artisan command. The Rules directory contains the custom validation rule objects for your application. Rules are used to encapsulate complicated validation logic in a simple object. For more information, check out the validation documentation.